###### Updated April 2024

Disney dominated the box office during the 2010s. Its magic came from a string of acquisitions spearheaded by CEO Bob Iger. It purchased Pixar in 2006 followed by Marvel Studios in 2009 and Lucasfilm three years later. The purchases paid off big. _Toy Story 3_, produced by Pixar, was the number-one film in 2010, grossing $1.1 billion worldwide. Two years later, The Avengers took the top spot, grossing $1.5 billion. Disney continued taking the number one, two, or three spot every year. It took all three in 2016 with Marvel, Lucasfilm, and Pixar movies. It repeated its trifecta in 2019. 

Disney paired its box-office success with success in its other business units. Disney Parks revenues doubled over the decade. Its affiliate fees and advertising revenues generated by its cable and broadcasting networks also flourished. Overall, its revenues grew by 83 percent over the decade. And it capped off the decade with the successful launch of its much-anticipated streaming service, Disney+, and the acquisition of 21st Century Fox's cable channels, studios, and content assets, which also gave Disney a majority stake and control of Hulu.

But Disney has been in a slump since then. Recent Disney films received tepid responses at the box office. _The Marvels_, released in 2023, grossed only $206 million, the lowest of any Marvel film. It’s estimated that Disney films released that year lost over $1 billion after accounting for production and marketing expenses. 
Further, Disney’s streaming ambitions have not made up for the decline in its cable and broadcast networks. Cord cutting has led to lower affiliate fees and ad revenues from Disney-owned ABC, FX, National Geographic, and Star channels. Meanwhile, Disney+ growth has stalled, and while it boasts 112 million subscribers, it has yet to turn a profit. 

The one bright spot is Disney Parks. Park-goers eagerly returned after the parks’ pandemic closures, pushing Park revenues and profits past their pre-pandemic levels in 2022. But overall, Disney’s profits are down dramatically since 2019 when it earned $11.6 billion. 

What can Disney do to restore its magic? Specifically, is it time to pursue new strategic acquisitions? If so, what capabilities, assets, brands, characters, or franchises should it acquire? If not, what internal changes should it make to increase profitability and profit growth?

---